A little over a week ago I went to Burning Seed, the eastern Australia regional burn. It was *excellent*, with an amazing community that rekindled my passion for art and my faith in humanity.

But what's really interesting is it's helped me discover something about myself I would not have realised otherwise.

<!--more-->

At Burning Seed I was completely disconnected from the net. My phone was off. My laptop was off. The only way to get a message to me was to find me in person. I didn't worry about my concerns that existed off-paddock, because there was nothing I could do about them while at Seed.

It was glorious, and I slept better than I can ever remember in recent memory. In terms of all the things I experienced at Burning Seed, immediacy and peace of mind were high on my list of favourites.

I very slowly reintroduced myself back to communication technology coming back from Burning Seed. I purposefully left my phone off until I was home and somewhat unpacked. I didn't check my email or IRC until quite a few days after returning. I didn't read social media, and instead I spent a lot of time with humans face-to-face. I was the happiest I'd been in a long time.

Yesterday marked my first day of being fully connected again. IRC, email, posting on social media, and quite obviously declaring that I exist and am back on-line.

I discovered that I do *not* enjoy being on-line.

Ubiquitous, personal communication means ubiquitous, personal interruptions. Messages will arrive when I'm running for the train, while I'm eating my food, while I'm planning my plans. Even if I don't look at my phone immediately, simply *knowing* that a message has arrived is just a little bit less immediacy that I can enjoy.

What's worse, most modern forms of communication beg for an immediate response.
Facebook gives me no easy way to mark a message for "later". I have to add a
note to my to-do list, remember it in my head, or try to periodically review
the huge amount of communications I get via that medium to see what needs
attention. Twitter, XMPP, and many other communications share similar issues.
Many instant communications signal when the recipient has received the message,
which also adds a social pressure to respond as well. I try to respond
immediately lest I not respond at all, but more often than not I feel my
responses are "can you ask me later?", or a hastily composed message that
doesn't do justice to the topic or person I'm talking to.

The result is that I found myself suffering from trying to juggle too many things in my head, trying to juggle too many communications, and any sense of immediacy or calm is lost.

The thing is, I *love* hearing from my friends. I love being invited to advise the government, for people to contribute to my projects, to hear from my contacts in the space industry, to get invited to conferences, and all the other communications I receive throughout my day. My various inboxes are a constant source of joy and wonder, and one of the best things about returning to the net was discovering everything people had sent me while I was away.

But that joy only happens if I'm able to engage in my own time: when I'm intending to be online, rather than it being a product of me owning a phone.

Luckily, there's an easy fix for all this, which is for me to silence notifications, and even unplug my devices. I didn't feel like I was missing out when I was back from Seed but still mostly offline; instead I felt the reverse, the lack of distractions were *wonderful*. I also don't feel that my friends and contacts felt they were missing out; I would appear as offline, and there was no expectation for an immediate response.


